Edit OpenAPI doc (#32634)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/fundamentals/minimal-apis/aspnetcore-openapi.md

---
title: Get started with Microsoft.AspNetCore.OpenApi
author: captainsafia
description: Learn how to generate and customize OpenAPI documents in an ASP.NET Core app
ms.author: safia
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-9.0'
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 5/22/2024
uid: fundamentals/minimal-apis/aspnetcore-openapi
---
# Get started with Microsoft.AspNetCore.OpenApi

> The [`Microsoft.AspNetCore.OpenApi`](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.AspNetCore.OpenApi) package provides built-in support for OpenAPI document generation in ASP.NET Core. The package is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`Microsoft.AspNetCore.OpenApi`](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.AspNetCore.OpenApi) package provides built-in support for OpenAPI document generation in ASP.NET Core. The package:
```

> * Compatible with native AoT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Is compatible with native AoT.
```

The document name surfaces in several places in the OpenAPI implementation.

> When fetching the generated OpenAPI document, the document name is provided as the `documentName` parameter argument in the request. The following requests resolve the `v1` and `internal` documents respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When fetching the generated OpenAPI document, the document name is provided as the `documentName` parameter argument in the request. The following requests resolve the `v1` and `internal` documents.
```

```bash
GET http://localhost:5000/openapi/v1.json
GET http://localhost:5000/openapi/internal.json
```

### Customize the OpenAPI version of a generated document

> By default, OpenAPI document generation creates a document that is compliant with the [v3.0 of the OpenAPI specification](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.0). The following code demonstrates how to modify the default version of the OpenAPI document:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, OpenAPI document generation creates a document that is compliant with [v3.0 of the OpenAPI specification](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.0). The following code demonstrates how to modify the default version of the OpenAPI document:
```

});
```

### Customize the OpenAPI endpoint route

By default, the OpenAPI endpoint registered via a call to `MapOpenApi` exposes the document at the `/openapi/{documentName}.json` endpoint. The following code demonstrates how to customize the route at which the OpenAPI document is registered:

```csharp
app.MapOpenApi("/openapi/{documentName}/openapi.json");
```

***Note:*** It's possible, but not recommended, to remove the `documentName` route parameter from the endpoint route. When the `documentName` route parameter is removed from the endpoint route, the framework attempts to resolve the document name from the query parameter. Not providing the `documentName` in either the route or query can result in unexpected behavior.

### Customize the OpenAPI endpoint

Because the OpenAPI document is served via a route handler endpoint, any customization that is available to standard minimal endpoints is available to the OpenAPI endpoint.

> #### Limiting access to OpenAPI document to authorized users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Limit OpenAPI document access to authorized users
```

The OpenAPI endpoint  doesn't enable any authorization checks by default. However, it's possible to limit access to the OpenAPI document. For example, in the following code, access to the OpenAPI document is limited to those with the `tester` scope:

[!code-csharp[](~/fundamentals/minimal-apis/9.0-samples/WebMinOpenApi/Program.cs?name=snippet_mapopenapiwithauth)]

#### Cache generated OpenAPI document

> The OpenAPI document is regenerated every time a request to the OpenAPI endpoint is sent. Regeneration allows transformers to incorporate dynamic application state into their operation. For example, regenerating a request with details of the HTTP context. When applicable, the OpenAPI document can be cached to avoid executing the document generation pipeline on each HTTP request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OpenAPI document is regenerated every time a request to the OpenAPI endpoint is sent. Regeneration enables transformers to incorporate dynamic application state into their operation. For example, regenerating a request with details of the HTTP context. When applicable, the OpenAPI document can be cached to avoid executing the document generation pipeline on each HTTP request.
```

[!code-csharp[](~/fundamentals/minimal-apis/9.0-samples/WebMinOpenApi/Program.cs?name=snippet_mapopenapiwithcaching)]

<a name="transformers"></a>

## Customize OpenAPI documents with transformers

Transformers provide an API for modifying the OpenAPI document with user-defined customizations. Transformers are useful for scenarios like:

* Adding parameters to all operations in a document.
* Modifying descriptions for parameters or operations.
* Adding top-level information to the OpenAPI document.

Transformers fall into two categories:

* Document transformers have access to the entire OpenAPI document. These can be used to make global modifications to the document.
<!-- PU review required -->

> * Operation transformers apply to each individual operation. Each individual operation is a combination of path and HTTP method. These can be used to modify parameters or responses on endpoints.

Author: @mikekistler pls review my rewrite

* Register a document transformer using a DI-activated `IOpenApiDocumentTransformer`.
* Register an operation transformer using a delegate.

> <!-- PU review replacement code. Original Snippet did not compile. -->

Author: @mikekistler pls review the code I moved to the project. Original wouldn't compile.

[!code-csharp[](~/fundamentals/minimal-apis/9.0-samples/WebMinOpenApi/Program.cs?name=DOCUMENTtransformerUse&highlight=6-12)]

## Customize OpenAPI endpoints with endpoint metadata

> The following list shows the endpoint metadata that are used to customize the generated OpenAPI document:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following list shows the endpoint metadata that is used to customize the generated OpenAPI document:
```

### Execution order for transformers

Transformers execute in first-in first-out order based on registration. In the following snippet, the document transformer has access to the modifications made by the operation transformer:

[!code-csharp[](~/fundamentals/minimal-apis/9.0-samples/WebMinOpenApi/Program.cs?name=snippet_transInOut&highlight=3-9)]

> ### Use the document transformers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use document transformers
```

Document transformers have access to a context object that includes:

* The name of the document being modified.
* The list of `ApiDescriptionGroups` associated with that document.
* The `IServiceProvider` used in document generation.

> Document transformers also have mutated access to the OpenAPI document generated. The following example demonstrates a document transformer that adds some information about the API to the OpenAPI document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Document transformers also can mutate the OpenAPI document that is generated. The following example demonstrates a document transformer that adds some information about the API to the OpenAPI document.
```

[!code-csharp[](~/fundamentals/minimal-apis/9.0-samples/WebMinOpenApi/Program.cs?name=snippet_documenttransformer1)]

> Service-activated document transformers can utilize DI instances to modify the app. The following sample demonstrates a document transformer that uses the `IAuthenticationSchemeProvider` service from the authentication layer. It checks if any JWT bearer-related schemes are registered in the app and adds them to the OpenAPI document's top level:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Service-activated document transformers can utilize instances from DI to modify the app. The following sample demonstrates a document transformer that uses the `IAuthenticationSchemeProvider` service from the authentication layer. It checks if any JWT bearer-related schemes are registered in the app and adds them to the OpenAPI document's top level:
```

### Using Swagger UI for local ad-hoc testing

By default, the `Microsoft.AspNetCore.OpenApi` package doesn't ship with built-in support for visualizing or interacting with the OpenAPI document. Popular tools for visualizing or interacting with the OpenAPI document include [Swagger UI](https://swagger.io/tools/swaggerhub/) and [ReDoc](https://appsumo.com/products/redoc/). Swagger UI and ReDoc can be integrated in an app in several ways. Editors such as Visual Studio and VS Code offer extensions and built-in experiences for testing against an OpenAPI document.

The `Swashbuckle.AspNetCore.SwaggerUi` package provides a bundle of Swagger UI's web assets for use in apps. This package can be used to render a UI for the generated document. To configure this, install the `Swashbuckle.AspNetCore.SwaggerUi` package.

> Enable the swagger-ui middleware with a reference to the OpenAPI route registered earlier. To limit information disclosure and security vulnerability concerns, ***only enable Swagger UI in development environments.***

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable the swagger-ui middleware with a reference to the OpenAPI route registered earlier. To limit information disclosure and security vulnerability, ***only enable Swagger UI in development environments.***
```
